We're gonna cover some advanced
looping techniques that you
might see like list comprehensions,
how to convert between
different types in Python,
and how to work with files.
So, list comprehensions are one of
the more unique features of Python.
And they're so
popular that other languages have
also started implementing
list comprehensions as well.
List comprehensions allow you to take what
would normally be quite a lot of code
that is actually pretty common
while you're programming.
Which is going through a list of items,
having a list of results,
and then appending to your
results as you go through a list.
So let's say that we wanted
to take a list of names and
return a list of
the length of those names.
And let's see what this would
look like in a Python ripple.
Let's do this in a new file.
And I'm gonna save this
as list comprehensions or
list_commstop_ un, gonna go ahead and
exit my repple and
then run this file in the terminal.
So I have a list here 4,
3, 4, 5 that relates
to the length of each of
these strings in the list.
A list comprehension is going to
let us do the same thing in one
line pretty simply and easily.
So here I'm going to print
before followed by my list.
[SOUND] And then,
I'm going to write my list comprehension.
So a list comprehension,
I find it easiest to write
kind of in reverse order.
So I'm gonna start with the square
brackets because I know that I want
a list comprehension and
square brackets are the syntax for lists.
And then,
I'm gonna type in what I'm looping over.
So I'm gonna type in for name in names.
Once I do that, I'm gonna move my
cursor all the way to the left,
[SOUND] to just after
the opening square bracket.
This is where I type in what
result I want from looping
over this set, or sorry,
looping over these values.
In this case,
I want the length of names and
that is a list comprehension,
it replaces all of this.
And now, I can print out after and
run this and get the same thing.
So I can assign it to a variable as well.
And get the same result.
I think this is pretty clean and
readable and understandable.
It is one of the things that folks who
are new to Python tend to trip over
quite a bit.
And the best way to get over that hump
is to just practice as much as possible.
So typing in these exercises and
getting that muscle memory and I find that
trick of writing my list comprehensions
in reverse really helps me remember.
Okay, I need the square
brackets because it's a list.
I need to figure out
what I'm looping over.
And then, I need to figure out
what do I want to extract.
In this case,
it's the length of the names.
We can also have conditional statements
in these list comprehensions.
If we want to add a condition, we move our
cursor all the way to the right-hand side,
and that's where our condition goes.
The condition is optional.
And here you can type if, and
an expression that either
evaluates to true or false.
When the expression is true, that value
on the left-hand side will end up
in the list comprehension,
if that expression is false, it will not.
So if I want to only get the,
let's say the names that have even numbers
of characters, I can say, remove this and
say what I actually want
is the name itself.
And then, have a condition that says,
if the length of the name
modular 2 means is the length
of the name even equal to 0,
then put it in my_list.
So now, when I run this,
I will only see the names
that have an even number of characters.
If I flip this condition and
say not equals, and
run this,
then I will get the other two names,
the ones that had the odd
numbers of characters.
There are ways of moving between
different types in Python.
One is split.
So if you have a string that
is separated by commas, and
you want to extract those values,
you can use split.
So going back to the repple,
if I have a name string that
looks something like this.
You might see something like this in a CSV
file, if you ever worked with those.
If you want to get a list of
names out of this string,
you can call the .split method on it and
pass in the token that
you want to split on.
If you have spaces in between those names,
then you would need to pass in a token
that is a comma and a space as well.
So, this is one very quick and
easy way of moving between a string and
a list.
If you then wanted to save
these values in a CSV file.
So in this case,
I have not modified my name string.
Remember, strings are immutable.
So let's say I call this a names list.
And I said name_strings.split on common.
Now, I have a list If I wanted
to get that back into a string,
I can call the .join method on a string.
In this case,
it's gonna look a little funky.
I'm gonna use space and then a dash and
a space, and I'm gonna say .join.
With my names list, and that's going to
return a string that has this delimiter.
You can also use this string joining
with a list comprehension as well.
So let's say that, I wanted to
multiply each number in a list by 2.
I could use a list comprehension for
that and
say for num in my_nums, and move my cursor
all the way to the left side and
say num * 2.
That's going to be a list comprehension.
I can call .join with
this list comprehension,
sorry, that did not copy right.
I can call .join with this
list comprehension here,
and it will accomplish the same thing.
Oops, sorry,
I need to convert this into a string.
Yep.
So moving between types in
Python is really quite simple.
And if any of you have done any
coding challenges like the advent of
code calendar,
you'll find that a lot of programmers
who do that will reach for Python.
Because moving between types is so
simple and straightforward, and
that's not necessarily the case
in other programming languages.
There are other kinds of comprehensions,
like dictionary comprehensions,
set comprehensions.
I'm not going to talk about
those during this course.
There is a chapter available in the course
website that you can read on your own,
and there is practice available as well.
What I do want to chat
about though is generators.
Generator expressions are, well,
we've already seen some of
those generator expressions.
Like when we tried to call range,
we didn't just get back a full list of all
the numbers that range generated, instead
we got back a different kind of function.
So a generator is a more advanced concept.
It's like an object that you're
able to iterate over like a list.
But unlike a list, a generator
only knows about where it is now,
and how to get the next value.
And it does that on demand without
generating that list of values all
at once.
So a generator comprehension does
look a lot like a list comprehension,
except it uses a single pair of
parentheses instead of brackets.
So here's a list comprehension
where we are generating squares.
For every number under 10
if that number is even,
I could change this to
a generator comprehension by
changing these square
brackets to parentheses.
If I check the type of my
list comprehension, sorry,
I'm gonna call this my
generator comprehension.
If I check the tape of my generator
comprehension, we'll see that it
is a generator and if I try to look at it,
it's going to come back with that.
If I wanted to see what was in this
generator, I could call list on it.
But generally, when you are using
a generator, you don't have a need to have
all of those numbers or values or
whatever in memory all at once.
Instead, you probably want to loop
through them and do something with them.
So I can loop over every item
in this generator comprehension.
And print it out.
And I can do that just
like I would with a list,
that syntax is seamless.
The thing about generators though,
is that once you use the generator,
again it doesn't have any state.
It's not stored in memory.
So once you loop over all these items,
the generator is exhausted.
It doesn't know how to get back to
whatever state it was in beforehand.
So if I try to loop over this again,
I'm not going to get anything back.
I've used up my generator and
if I want to use it again,
I have to recreate it and
start from scratch.
So as Python has migrated to Python 3,
a lot more of these internal
structures have moved over to
be generators or generator-like.
And even though this is a more advanced
concept, it's really important to know
about because of those optimizations
that have happened over the years.